project/project.md, before:

What makes a popular Reddit post?
================
InterstellR
May 2, 2018

Load packages and data
----------------------

Introduction
------------

"Reddit is an American social news aggregation, web content rating, and discussion website" (from [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reddit)). People who are members of Reddit upload their posts and other people vote and comment on said posts, the posts with the most likes appear more towards the top. They are divided by thematic categories called subreddits, as well as overall categories of top posts, new posts, controversial posts, among others.

TODO: Expand introduction

### Data Set

The data set is comprised of Reddit posts from December 2017, since it was the latest data set we could find and wanted to keep up with the most recent trends. Also, it will be interesting to explore themes related to Christmas. We retrieved it from the Google BigQuery API. The data set contains 33 variables and 1000000 observations.

Our dataset is made up of 33 variables but for this project, we will only be looking at these variables: `subreddit` (categorical, name of the subreddit the post belongs to), `num_comments` (numerical, the number of comments on the post),`score` (numerical, popularity score of post), `ups` (numerical, amount of up votes the post recieved), `downs` (numerical, amount of down votes the post recieved), `title` (categorical, the title of the post), `selftext` (categorical, the text body on the post), `gilded` (numerical, amount of gold reddit donations from other users), `over_18` ( categorical, true or fale if post is only appropriate for users over the age of 18). The rest of the descriptions for the other variables can be found in our data folder.

### Research Question

Coincidentally, our team is made up of avid Reddit fans. All three of us are constantly checking it for interesting, insightful, and funny posts. Given that Reddit recieves thousands of posts per day and the little time in the day we have to check Reddit, we all usually only check the "popular" feed. So, it got us thinking that we should learn more about the site we use pretty frequently. Specifically, we want to analyze what makes a Reddit post popular.

Cleaning
--------

The dataset we acquired is mostly clean; however, there is one thing we need to clean up before we began our analysis. The variable `created_utc` gives the date that the post was created as the difference in milliseconds from January 1st, 1970. This quantity is not very easy to read or interpret, so we convert it to a combination of day, hour, and minute. We do not need to store the month and year since these values are the same for all entries in the dataset.

To check whether our conversion is correct, we can look at the range of the new date variable. We see that the first post in the dataset was on 2017-12-01 00:00:04 and the latest one was on 2017-12-31 23:59:58. Since this range is exactly the month of December 2017, we can be confident that the conversion was successful.

Exploring Popular Subreddits
----------------------------

As stricty popular-feed Reddit users, we do not know much about the various subreddits yet. Hence, we want to start by finding out what the most popular ones are and gain insights into what the posts in each one are about. As a measure of a subreddit's popularity, we decide to use the cumulative score of all of its posts. The plot below shows the nine subreddits with the highest resulting totals.

![](project_files/figure-markdown_github/active-subreddits-1.png)

We find that the nine most popular subreddits in descending order are `The_Donald`, `aww`, `politics`, `pics`, `gaming`, `funny`, `gifs`, `todayilearned`, and `dankmemes`. We may be able to intuit what most of these subreddits are about from their name alone, but we wanted to know more about the content and central topics in each of them. Therefore, we decided to analyze the most frequent terms in each of these subreddits with the help of the `tidytext` package. We want to focus on the text contained in the title of the posts since it is the first thing that is visible to the users. Furthermore, we decided to filter out stop words such as "the" and "a" because they naturally appear very frequently and do not convey much about the content of any one particular subreddit.

![](project_files/figure-markdown_github/tf-analysis-1.png)

TODO: Discuss results for this visualization

Sentiment Analysis
------------------

One of the major questions we want to explore is whether positive or negative posts are more popular. Our hypothesis is that negative posts are generally more popular, as psychologists claim that humans have an innate "negativity bias" which draws them toward bad news moreso than good ones (Ito et al. 1998). To test this belief, we need a way to determine the sentiment polarity of each post, i.e. how positive or negative it is. We will use the `afinn` sentiment lexicon, which provides a list of 2476 words, each associated with a score between -3 and +3. Negative words are given a negative score, and positive words are given a positive score. The higher in magnitude the score is, the more extreme the negativity or positivity of the word. For example, the word "death" has a score of -3 whereas the word "love" has a score of +3. In order to determine the overall sentiment of a post, we will simply add up the sentiments of the words contained in it.

We find that the average sentiment score of the posts is 0.151693 with a large standard deviation of 1.9394437. Interestingly, the title with the most positive sentiment is "Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha h ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha!," which is a result of the word "ha" having a sentiment score of 2. We will not show the most negative post here because it contains a lot of profanity. Next, let's add an indicator variable `sent_class` to the dataframe that is "pos" if the sentiment score is positive, "neg" if the sentiment score is negative, and "neutral" if it is 0.

It turns out that there are a total of 235929 positive posts, 175807 negative posts, and 588264 neutral posts in the dataset, provided that our method of determining sentiment is accurate. Let us examine a few posts from the positive and negative category to see whether the results make sense.

    ## # A tibble: 3 x 2
    ##   title                                                         sent_class
    ##   <chr>                                                         <chr>     
    ## 1 Always tempted to pull out the twins like this at the gym...… pos       
    ## 2 Unstable was one of my best drafts ever                       pos       
    ## 3 The benefits are obvious, it just takes discipline            pos

    ## # A tibble: 3 x 2
    ##   title                                                         sent_class
    ##   <chr>                                                         <chr>     
    ## 1 Finally getting started with my bass build! - but I have no … neg       
    ## 2 "Every time I try to queue up I get \"You failed to accept\"… neg       
    ## 3 This is why i fear hardcore                                   neg

It appears that the sentiment analysis results match our intuition -- the positively classified titles talk about "best drafts ever" and "obvious benefits," and the negatively classified titles talk about a technical problem with some video game and fears.

Now, we can finally test our hypothesis. The null hypothesis and the alternative hypothesis are as follows.

H0: A post's score is independent of the title's sentiment.
HA: A post's score depends on the title's sentiment.

For this analysis, we will ignore posts with neutral sentiment and only focus on those with positive or negative sentiment polarity. Before we start, we need to verify whether all conditions for valid simulation based inference are met.

Cats vs. Dogs
-------------

TODO: Hypothesis test whether dogs or cats are more popular

Modeling Popularity
-------------------

TODO: Density plot and summary statistics for popularity TODO: Build linear and bayesian model and compare results

Discussion
----------

TODO: Discuss results

Conclusion
----------

References
----------

Ito, Tiffany A., Jeff T. Larsen, N. Kyle Smith, and John T. Cacioppo. 1998. “Negative Information Weighs More Heavily on the Brain: The Negativity Bias in Evaluative Categorizations.” *Journal of Personality and Social Psychology* 75 (4): 887–900. <https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=pdh&AN=1998-12834-004&site=ehost-live&scope=site>.

Commit message:

Add narrative for hypothesis test

project/project.md, after:

What makes a popular Reddit post?
================
InterstellR
May 2, 2018

Load packages and data
----------------------

Introduction
------------

"Reddit is an American social news aggregation, web content rating, and discussion website" (from [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reddit)). People who are members of Reddit upload their posts and other people vote and comment on said posts, the posts with the most likes appear more towards the top. They are divided by thematic categories called subreddits, as well as overall categories of top posts, new posts, controversial posts, among others.

TODO: Expand introduction

### Data Set

The data set is comprised of Reddit posts from December 2017, since it was the latest data set we could find and wanted to keep up with the most recent trends. Also, it will be interesting to explore themes related to Christmas. We retrieved it from the Google BigQuery API. The data set contains 33 variables and 1000000 observations.

Our dataset is made up of 33 variables but for this project, we will only be looking at these variables: `subreddit` (categorical, name of the subreddit the post belongs to), `num_comments` (numerical, the number of comments on the post),`score` (numerical, popularity score of post), `ups` (numerical, amount of up votes the post recieved), `downs` (numerical, amount of down votes the post recieved), `title` (categorical, the title of the post), `selftext` (categorical, the text body on the post), `gilded` (numerical, amount of gold reddit donations from other users), `over_18` ( categorical, true or fale if post is only appropriate for users over the age of 18). The rest of the descriptions for the other variables can be found in our data folder.

### Research Question

Coincidentally, our team is made up of avid Reddit fans. All three of us are constantly checking it for interesting, insightful, and funny posts. Given that Reddit recieves thousands of posts per day and the little time in the day we have to check Reddit, we all usually only check the "popular" feed. So, it got us thinking that we should learn more about the site we use pretty frequently. Specifically, we want to analyze what makes a Reddit post popular.

Cleaning
--------

The dataset we acquired is mostly clean; however, there is one thing we need to clean up before we began our analysis. The variable `created_utc` gives the date that the post was created as the difference in milliseconds from January 1st, 1970. This quantity is not very easy to read or interpret, so we convert it to a combination of day, hour, and minute. We do not need to store the month and year since these values are the same for all entries in the dataset.

To check whether our conversion is correct, we can look at the range of the new date variable. We see that the first post in the dataset was on 2017-12-01 00:00:04 and the latest one was on 2017-12-31 23:59:58. Since this range is exactly the month of December 2017, we can be confident that the conversion was successful.

Exploring Popular Subreddits
----------------------------

As stricty popular-feed Reddit users, we do not know much about the various subreddits yet. Hence, we want to start by finding out what the most popular ones are and gain insights into what the posts in each one are about. As a measure of a subreddit's popularity, we decide to use the cumulative score of all of its posts. The plot below shows the nine subreddits with the highest resulting totals.

![](project_files/figure-markdown_github/active-subreddits-1.png)

We find that the nine most popular subreddits in descending order are `The_Donald`, `aww`, `politics`, `pics`, `gaming`, `funny`, `gifs`, `todayilearned`, and `dankmemes`. We may be able to intuit what most of these subreddits are about from their name alone, but we wanted to know more about the content and central topics in each of them. Therefore, we decided to analyze the most frequent terms in each of these subreddits with the help of the `tidytext` package. We want to focus on the text contained in the title of the posts since it is the first thing that is visible to the users. Furthermore, we decided to filter out stop words such as "the" and "a" because they naturally appear very frequently and do not convey much about the content of any one particular subreddit.

![](project_files/figure-markdown_github/tf-analysis-1.png)

TODO: Discuss results for this visualization

Sentiment Analysis
------------------

One of the major questions we want to explore is whether positive or negative posts are more popular. Our hypothesis is that negative posts are generally more popular, as psychologists claim that humans have an innate "negativity bias" which draws them toward bad news moreso than good ones (Ito et al. 1998). To test this belief, we need a way to determine the sentiment polarity of each post, i.e. how positive or negative it is. We will use the `afinn` sentiment lexicon, which provides a list of 2476 words, each associated with a score between -3 and +3. Negative words are given a negative score, and positive words are given a positive score. The higher in magnitude the score is, the more extreme the negativity or positivity of the word. For example, the word "death" has a score of -3 whereas the word "love" has a score of +3. In order to determine the overall sentiment of a post, we will simply add up the sentiments of the words contained in it.

We find that the average sentiment score of the posts is 0.15 with a large standard deviation of 1.94. Interestingly, the title with the most positive sentiment is "Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha h ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha!," which is a result of the word "ha" having a sentiment score of 2. We will not show the most negative post here because it contains a lot of profanity. Next, let's add an indicator variable `sent_class` to the dataframe that is "pos" if the sentiment score is positive, "neg" if the sentiment score is negative, and "neutral" if it is 0.

It turns out that there are a total of 235929 positive posts, 175807 negative posts, and 588264 neutral posts in the dataset, provided that our method of determining sentiment is accurate. Let us examine a few posts from the positive and negative category to see whether the results make sense.

    ## # A tibble: 3 x 2
    ##   title                                                         sent_class
    ##   <chr>                                                         <chr>     
    ## 1 Always tempted to pull out the twins like this at the gym...… pos       
    ## 2 Unstable was one of my best drafts ever                       pos       
    ## 3 The benefits are obvious, it just takes discipline            pos

    ## # A tibble: 3 x 2
    ##   title                                                         sent_class
    ##   <chr>                                                         <chr>     
    ## 1 Finally getting started with my bass build! - but I have no … neg       
    ## 2 "Every time I try to queue up I get \"You failed to accept\"… neg       
    ## 3 This is why i fear hardcore                                   neg

It appears that the sentiment analysis results match our intuition -- the positively classified titles talk about "best drafts ever" and "obvious benefits," and the negatively classified titles talk about a technical problem with some video game and fears.

Now, we can finally test our hypothesis. The null hypothesis and the alternative hypothesis are as follows.

H0: A post's score is independent of the title's sentiment polarity.
HA: Negative posts have a higher mean score than positive posts.

For this analysis, we will ignore posts with neutral sentiment and only focus on those with positive or negative sentiment polarity. Before we start, we need to verify whether all conditions for valid simulation based inference are met. Our "population" is the set of all Reddit posts in December 2017 and has a size of 10,567,492. Our sample is taken at random without replacement and has a size of 1,000,000. Since the sample size is less than 10% of the population size, the independence condition is therefore met. Additionally, we require more than 30 samples, which we also have.

First, we calculate the observed difference in mean score between posts with negative and positive `sent_class`.

We find that, in our sample, negative posts have an average score which is 12.48 higher than positive posts. Next, let's figure out whether this difference could be due to chance using bootstrapping with permutation.

The resulting null distribution of the differences in means in shown below.

![](project_files/figure-markdown_github/plot-null-dist-1.png)

Using a one-sided hypothesis test, we find a p-value of 0. Using a significance level of 5%, we can infer that since our p-value is less than the significance level, we can reject the null hypothesis and conclude that negative posts do indeed have a higher average mean score than positive posts.

Cats vs. Dogs
-------------

TODO: Hypothesis test whether dogs or cats are more popular

Modeling Popularity
-------------------

TODO: Density plot and summary statistics for popularity TODO: Build linear and bayesian model and compare results

Discussion
----------

TODO: Discuss results

Conclusion
----------

References
----------

Ito, Tiffany A., Jeff T. Larsen, N. Kyle Smith, and John T. Cacioppo. 1998. “Negative Information Weighs More Heavily on the Brain: The Negativity Bias in Evaluative Categorizations.” *Journal of Personality and Social Psychology* 75 (4): 887–900. <https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=pdh&AN=1998-12834-004&site=ehost-live&scope=site>.
