data/README.md, before:

# data

dimensions of dataset

variable name: description (range of values)
variable name: description (range of values)
variable name: description (range of values)

1st Road Class	1st Road Class Desc
1	Motorway
2	A(M)
3	A
4	B
5	C
6	Unclassified
	
Road Surface	Road Surface Desc
1	Dry
2	Wet / Damp
3	Snow
4	Frost / Ice
5	Flood (surface water over 3cm deep)
	
Lighting Conditions	Lighting Conditions Desc
1	Daylight: street lights present
2	Daylight: no street lighting
3	Daylight: street lighting unknown
4	Darkness: street lights present and lit
5	Darkness: street lights present but unlit
6	Darkness: no street lighting
7	Darkness: street lighting unknown
	
Weather Conditions	Weather Conditions Desc
1	Fine without high winds
2	Raining without high winds
3	Snowing without high winds
4	Fine with high winds
5	Raining with high winds
6	Snowing with high winds
7	Fog or mist – if hazard
8	Other
9	Unknown
	
Casualty Class	Casualty Class Desc
1	Driver or rider
2	Vehicle or pillion passenger
3	Pedestrian
	
Casualty Severity	Casualty Severity Desc
1	Fatal
2	Serious
3	Slight
	
Sex of Casualty	Sex of Casualty Desc
1	Male
2	Female
	
Age of Casualty	
[Age given in years]	
	
Type of Vehicle	Type of Vehicle Desc
1	Pedal cycle
2	M/cycle 50cc and under
3	Motorcycle over 50cc and up to 125cc
4	Motorcycle over 125cc and up to 500cc
5	Motorcycle over 500cc
6	[Not used]
7	[Not used]
8	Taxi/Private hire car
9	Car
10	Minibus (8 – 16 passenger seats)
11	Bus or coach (17 or more passenger seats)
12	[Not used]
13	[Not used]
14	Other motor vehicle
15	Other non-motor vehicle
16	Ridden horse
17	Agricultural vehicle (includes diggers etc.)
18	Tram / Light rail
19	Goods vehicle 3.5 tonnes mgw and under
20	Goods vehicle over 3.5 tonnes and under 7.5 tonnes mgw
21	Goods vehicle 7.5 tonnes mgw and over
22	Mobility Scooter
90	Other Vehicle 
97	Motorcycle - Unknown CC

Commit message:

Added variable descriptions, type, and range

data/README.md, after:

# data

dimensions of dataset: our data set contains 2534 rows and 16 columns. 

variable: description: type: range of values
Reference Number: unique car accident ID
Grid Ref-Easting: Eastern Coordinate (in Meters)
Grid Ref-Northing: Northern Coordinate (in Meters)
Number of Vehicles: Amount of vehicles affected by accident: Numeric: 1-8
Accident Date: Date of Accident: Continuous: days between Jan - Dec 2014
Time: Time of Accident: Continuous: anytime in a 24 hr day
1st Road Class: Type of Road: Categorical: A, B, C, Motorway
Road Surface: Physical Road Condition: Categorical: Dry, Frost/Ice, Wet/Damp, Snow
Lighting conditions: the type of brightness outside: Categorical: Daylight, Darkness
Weather coniditions: the characteristics of the weather: Categorical: Fine without high winds, Raining without high winds, Snowing without high winds, Fine with high winds, Raining with high winds, Snowing with high winds, Fog or mist – if hazard 
Casualty Class: what type on individuals were affected by the accident: Categorical: Driver/Rider(1), Vehicle/pillion passeneger(2), Pedestrian (3)
Casualty Severity: how harmful the accident was to the members involved: Fatal, Serious, Slight
Sex of Casualty: the sex of the person harmed: Categorical: Male, Female
Age of Casualty: The age of the person harmed: Numeric: 1-97
Type of Vehicle: The type of vehicle which caused the accident: Bus/Coach,Pedal cycle, M/cycle 50cc and under, Motorcycle over 50cc and up to 125cc,	Motorcycle over 125cc and up to 500cc,	Motorcycle over 500cc, Taxi/Private hire car, Car, Ridden Hourse, Mobility Scooter, Agriculture Vehicle, 	Minibus (8 – 16 passenger seats), Tram/Light, Goods vehicle 3.5 tonnes mgw and under, Goods vehicle over 3.5 tonnes and under 7.5 tonnes mgw, Goods vehicle 7.5 tonnes mgw and over
 


1st Road Class	1st Road Class Desc
1	Motorway
2	A(M)
3	A
4	B
5	C
6	Unclassified
	
Road Surface	Road Surface Desc
1	Dry
2	Wet / Damp
3	Snow
4	Frost / Ice
5	Flood (surface water over 3cm deep)
	
Lighting Conditions	Lighting Conditions Desc
1	Daylight: street lights present
2	Daylight: no street lighting
3	Daylight: street lighting unknown
4	Darkness: street lights present and lit
5	Darkness: street lights present but unlit
6	Darkness: no street lighting
7	Darkness: street lighting unknown
	
Weather Conditions	Weather Conditions Desc
1	Fine without high winds
2	Raining without high winds
3	Snowing without high winds
4	Fine with high winds
5	Raining with high winds
6	Snowing with high winds
7	Fog or mist – if hazard
8	Other
9	Unknown
	
Casualty Class	Casualty Class Desc
1	Driver or rider
2	Vehicle or pillion passenger
3	Pedestrian
	
Casualty Severity	Casualty Severity Desc
1	Fatal
2	Serious
3	Slight
	
Sex of Casualty	Sex of Casualty Desc
1	Male
2	Female
	
Age of Casualty	
[Age given in years]	
	
Type of Vehicle	Type of Vehicle Desc
1	Pedal cycle
2	M/cycle 50cc and under
3	Motorcycle over 50cc and up to 125cc
4	Motorcycle over 125cc and up to 500cc
5	Motorcycle over 500cc
6	[Not used]
7	[Not used]
8	Taxi/Private hire car
9	Car
10	Minibus (8 – 16 passenger seats)
11	Bus or coach (17 or more passenger seats)
12	[Not used]
13	[Not used]
14	Other motor vehicle
15	Other non-motor vehicle
16	Ridden horse
17	Agricultural vehicle (includes diggers etc.)
18	Tram / Light rail
19	Goods vehicle 3.5 tonnes mgw and under
20	Goods vehicle over 3.5 tonnes and under 7.5 tonnes mgw
21	Goods vehicle 7.5 tonnes mgw and over
22	Mobility Scooter
90	Other Vehicle 
97	Motorcycle - Unknown CC
